# NTAC minutes, 18 March 2023 (draft)

## [Agenda](2023-04-11-agenda.md)

## Attending

- [ ] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [x] Tom Carlson
- [x] Kelly Cullinane
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [ ] Mike Douklias
- [ ] Chet Ensign
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [x] Lavdjola Farrington
- [ ] Dave Hardy
- [x] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Eric Jahn
- [x] David Kemp
- [x] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [x] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [ ] Joe Mierwa
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [ ] Beth Smalley
- [ ] Duncan Sparrell
- [x] Jennifer Stathakis
- [ ] Stephen Sullivan

## **Previous minutes:**  

[Minutes for 2023-04-11](2023-04-11-minutes.md) were approved without change.

## Publication process PN

Still waiting for NBAC feedback.  Some progress on roadmap (in the issue tracker).  

*Resolved:*  In the absence of significant NBAC feedback we intend a vote on 2 May to approve the PN

## Wildcard augmentations

No progress

## Technical architecture PN

No progress

## NDR overhaul

We need a repo for a "What's New In NIEM 6.0?" project note.  Several titles discussed; none chosen.  Kelly Cullinane will tell us of the OASIS naming rules we must follow, if any.

Some principles will be moved to the technical architecture PN; [discussion here](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/discussions/38).  Principle 5 may be removed; to be resolved after draft language available for review.  Principles 11 and 15 to be revised as described in previous minutes.  *Resolved:*  Remove this topic from future agenda.

## NDR reorganization

[Current organization and initial cut at reorganization](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/discussions/42)

[Markdown version of NDR](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-naming-design-rules/blob/dev/niem-ndr.md)

Work with the current outline until we find we need a different one.

## Related specifictions

Action items completed:

- [X] Tom Carlson to put JSON Spec in the `docs` folder for now
- [X] Tom Carlson to request creation of repo as "conformance-specification"
- [X] Tom Carlson to put CTAS in the existing repo
- [X] Christina Medlin to update Github landing page: https://github.com/niemopen/

## Tools and Software Build Automation

No progress.  [Digital Engineering discussion board](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/discussions/41)

### CMFTool

Scott Renner working on it this week.  Discussion on a convention for namespace URIs:  Do they need the `#` at the end?  Will consider OASIS guidance on namespace URIs.

## New business

Discussion of related concerns raised by Jennifer Stathakis:  

* The future of NIEMOpen depends on sufficient funding for essential maintenance.  
* Simplification of NIEMOpen technical architecture will make that maintenance easier (requiring less funding) *and* will improve NIEMOpen adoption (which could mean more funding)

NTAC thanks Jennifer for raising these concerns and agrees with her analysis.

