# NTAC minutes, 11 April 2023 (draft)

## [Agenda](2023-04-11-agenda.md)

## Attending

- [x] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [x] Tom Carlson
- [x] Kelly Cullinane
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [x] Mike Douklias
- [ ] Chet Ensign
- [x] Katherine Escobar
- [x] Lavdjola Farrington
- [ ] Dave Hardy
- [ ] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Eric Jahn
- [x] David Kemp
- [x] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [ ] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [ ] Joe Mierwa
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [x] Beth Smalley
- [x] Duncan Sparrell
- [x] Jennifer Stathakis
- [x] Stephen Sullivan

## **Previous minutes:**  

[Minutes for 2023-04-04](2023-04-04-minutes.md) were approved without change.

## Publication process PN

Out for review by NBAC.  Duncan Sparrell notes the process ends with a PS, doesn't say anything about continuing to OASIS standard or ISO.

*Resolved:* At the end of the publication process, add a note about turning a PS into an OASIS Standard, with a pointer to the relevant section of the OASIS rules.

*Resolved:* Follow instructions in section 5.1 of process note and come up with roadmap/schedule

## Wildcard augmentations

no progress

## Technical architecture PN

No progress.

## NDR overhaul

A long discussion of [Principle 5 and related rules](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/discussions/38#discussioncomment-5303269).  Scott Renner observed that the rules against default values do not really align with the way many people use boolean properties.  For example, in NIEM XSD we presume that `appinfo:deprecated` is false by default.  We may decide to replace Principle 5 (and its rules) with a new interpretation rule:  When a schema component has a default value, or an optional schema component has a fixed value, then a consuming application must infer that value whenever the component could but does not appear in the message.  Further discussion postponed until we have draft language to consider.

[Discussion of Principle 11](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/discussions/38#discussioncomment-5303324) turned into a comparison with Principle 15.  

*Resolved:* Principle 11 should say "design schemas for reuse".  Principle 15 should say "Reuse existing components if you can".  Revise [NDR section 6.3](https://reference.niem.gov/niem/specification/naming-and-design-rules/5.0/niem-ndr-5.0.html#section_6.3) accordingly.

NDR 5.0 has been fully [converted to Markdown](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-naming-design-rules/blob/dev/niem-ndr.md).

## Related specifications

The JSON specification has also been converted to Markdown.  *Resolved:* We will keep it in the [ntac-admin/documents folder](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/tree/main/documents) for now.  

*Resolved:* We will create a new "conformance-specification" repo for the Conformance specification.

- [ ] Tom Carlson to contribute JSON spec to the documents folder
- [ ] Tom Carlson to request the conformance-specification repo
- [ ] Christina Medlin to update the ntac-admin landing page with all the new stuff

## Tools and software build automation

No progress.

## CMFTool

Version 6.0 with all history is available as the `main` branch in the repo.  New stuff will be pushed to the `develop` branch for v0.7.

## Funding

Katherine Escobar observes there may be less funding towards the end of the year. So the ask is that NTAC considers the way forward on how to accomplish the key items. NTAC can ask the PGB for sponsorship money for contract support. 

## Action Item Review

- [x] NTAC TSC review of Publication Process Project Note
  - [x] Show to NBAC
- [ ] NTAC TSC review of Wildcard Augmentations
- [ ] NTAC TSC review of Technical Architecture Project Note
- [ ] NTAC TSC review of NDR Overhaul
  - [x] Publish Markdown version
- [ ] Tom to request repo creation, "code-lists-specification"
